## Interface Input and Output Errors
* “==**Input errors**==” is the sum of all errors in datagrams that were received on the interface being examined.The reported input errors from the **show interfaces** command include the following:
	-   ==**Runt Frames**== - Ethernet frames that are shorter than the 64-byte minimum allowed length are called runts. Malfunctioning NICs are the usual cause of excessive runt frames, but they can also be caused by collisions.
	-   ==**Giants**== - Ethernet frames that are larger than the maximum allowed size are called giants.
	-   ==**CRC errors**== - On Ethernet and serial interfaces, CRC errors usually indicate a media or cable error. Common causes include electrical interference, loose or damaged connections, or incorrect cabling. If you see many CRC errors, there is too much noise on the link and you should inspect the cable. You should also search for and eliminate noise sources.
* “==**Output errors**==” is the sum of all errors that prevented the final transmission of datagrams out the interface that is being examined. The reported output errors from the **show interfaces** command include the following:
	* -   ==**Collisions**== - Collisions in half-duplex operations are normal. However, you should never see collisions on an interface configured for full-duplex communication.
	-   ==**Late collisions**== - A late collision refers to a collision that occurs after 512 bits of the frame have been transmitted. Excessive cable lengths are the most common cause of late collisions. Another common cause is duplex misconfiguration. For example, you could have one end of a connection configured for full-duplex and the other for half-duplex. You would see late collisions on the interface that is configured for half-duplex. In that case, you must configure the same duplex setting on both ends. A properly designed and configured network should never have late collisions.